New Zealand needs to act on climate change mitigation on the assumption that the countries of the world will achieve their Paris
commitments. This essential if we are to avoid setting plans that are unrealistic in relation to what the rest of the world is doing. NZ

can continue to emit reasonably large amounts of green house gases for a lengthy period of time because of the scope to plant large
areas of trees as offsets. Very few other countries are in this happy situation so will in fact have to reduce their gross emissions very

dramatically to achieve net zero emissions. As a simple example NZ could achieve net zero by reducing gross emissions from the
present 18/19 tonnes per capita to, say, 10 tonnes and offset the remaining 10 tonnes for many years. China currently emits 5
tonnes per capita but has no chance of offsetting more than a tonne or two per capita even in the short term. Most countries are

much closer to the China example than the NZ example so NZ must plan to fit into a world that is much more constrained in its ability
to produce the goods that NZ currently imports or plans to import in the future. It is all well and good to plan on replacing ICE private

vehicles with EV private vehicles as part of our plan but where are we going to import them from if other countries have higher
priorities (feeding, clothing, housing, heating and transporting their citizens) than producing goods to export to NZ? Although plans

that take account of these issues will be more disruptive of NZ society, they will be manageable provided we are doing the planning
rather than suddenly discovering that the rest of the world is pursuing actions that make our too self-centred plans ineffective. The

essential barrier to taking effective action to reduce NZ's emissions is the reluctance of the current generation to decide on and then
make the sacrifices of elements of their high consumption way of life regardless of how much this refusal will damage the lives of
future generations. Understanding this strong psychological commitment to a way of life that is unsustainable in anything except the

very short term must be the starting point for any planning of mitigation action. Accepting the fundamental importance of the
psychology in making changes must be taken on board yet this discussion ignores it completely. The ethical need for the current

generation to take account of the enormous damage being done to future generations is overwhelmed by our commitment to the
high consumption life style even though this often requires people to hold mutually inconsistent beliefs.
