The Paris Agreement is a hugely expensive joke and is more about the promotion of diversity and equaility through the redistibution
of first world wealth than climate change. We should not take it seriously to the detriment of our society when the biggest pollutors

continue openly on a path to ramp up emissions. Our emissions total is insignificant in the scope of things, especially when viewed in
light of developing worlds attitude towards emmission reduction. Our goals should reflect our significance and admit that Zero nett
carbon is nice but unobtainable dream, so lets be realistic and aim for 60% reduction. We can easily meet this target by some

moderate changes to agriculture to drive soil carbon capture but these would require a subsidisation model. Ie paying farmers to let
land lie in fallow and develop crops for soil carbon capture. Not likely we will embrace artificial economics like subsidization though.

Natural gas was one of the most effective forms of energy to assist on this pathway, zero logic in Governments decision sorry. Are we
prepared to get real about the cost of bunker fuel for shipping that drives the consumer based segment of our economy, or the real

cost of air travel that has massive increases in tourists projected? Doubt it. It is very easy to sort out our electricty and transition the
small percentage from coal generation to hydro or geo thermal capacity. Will environmntal groups support damming of rivers if it

means replacing Huntly? Is it possible to get planning consent to build a Hydro dam in the time we have left? One positive is that
political ideologies may be forced to accept common ground on some issues. If we are serious about a net zero carbon future we
need to disperse with many of the out-moded ideologies that pervade environmentalism. For example, the cyclone Ita legislation to

salvage timber on conservation land resulted in $40 million GDP generation, including $1.7 million direct conservation funding.
Approximately 6% of the allowable volume of timber was removed and an estimate 1/10th of 1% of the total downed biomass was

removed. This is a perfect example of local community response to a massive natural event and is important in the context that New
Zealand now imports $94 million of timber and $480 million of solid wooden furniture. Our indigenous industry produces around 4%

of what our society consumes. All these imports are produced under inferior legislation and shipped to NZ using bunker fuel that
does not reflect the true cost of emissions. By allowing a region like the West Coast to apply world leading resource management
practices to some of its plentiful natural resources we can create regional and national wealth and offset the damage of consumer

demand does globally. Try getting the limited, regulated use of windthrown timber past Eugene Sage James. Finally we are in a
position where ridiculous green ideology is diametrically opposed to itself. Time for a cup of tea before the world ends.
