If we look at the 'Paris Agreement' and targets of 11% below 1990 levels and look at population growth the logistics of reducing
greenhouse gases become exceedingly difficult. In 1990 New Zealand had a population of 3.414 million, today our population at 4.76

million is 39% higher. We had to be 11% below 1990 levels so effectively at this moment in time every person that was alive in 1990
should have a carbon footprint 50% smaller than they did back then. But our Paris target was for 2030 (estimated population 5.2

million or a 9.5% increase); so by then every person that was alive in 1990 must have a carbon footprint 60% smaller than it was back
then. If we continue this extrapolation to 2050 then the carbon footprint of someone alive in 1990 needs to be 78% smaller than it

was back then. This is totally unrealistic; the only logical way to stem greenhouse gas emissions is to STOP population growth and
more importantly STOP IMMIGRATION. Global warming is an international problem caused by globalisation; one where the major
emitters are the Asian block of countries (China, India, Japan, Korea, Indonesia, Phillipines, etc) whom emitt >50% of all greenhouse

gases. International pressure either through diplomacy (foreign affairs) or trade (an embargo on goods with high carbon footprints)
must be imposed to arrest the growth in greenhouse gases from China and India especially. We MUST REDUCE ELECTRICITY PRICES

if New Zealand is going to remain competitive. The free-market model for electricity implemented by the last 2 National governments
has resulted in New Zealand having some of the most expensive electricity prices in the world. In India electricity is 5-6.5c per unit, in

China 8c per unit, in Canada 10c per unit, in the USA 12c per unit, in the UK 20c per unit; but here in NZ it is 28c per unit. When we
are reliant on electricity for energy and transport we cannot afford to pay the current price. Quite simple we will not be competitive in
international markets. We must transition away from current agricultural commodities to horticulture. This should start now with

seeding finance for synthetic milk and synthetic meat production. Agriculture must pay for high livestock emissions which will
enhance the rate of change. A tax on nitrogen-based fertilizers must be imposed to reduce nitrates in surface and groundwater; and

reduce emissions of nitrous oxide. One of the principle risks is we are locked into Keynesian economics which is a paradigm requiring
compounded growth in all economic indicators to provide a workable framework for our economy. How can we have an economy with
compounded growth year on year, when in fact we require compounded recessions year on year in our carbon footprint? How can

compounded human impacts on ecosystems continue year on year when we want compounded growth of biodiversity to sequester
carbon? How can compounded population growth continue year on year when the overshoot in world population currently exceeds 2

billion people and overshoot in the New Zealand population is almost 1 million people? What is the model for sustainability, because it
certainly isn’t what we have got at the minute.
