WE NEED TO FACE THE FACTS THAT: (1) Climate change mechanisms were well enough understood by scientists in the early 1980's
to correctly initiate the Kyoto Protocol; (2) Right wing climate change denialism has been spectacularly effective in blocking the

necessary emissions reductions from being implemented and as a result emissions have increased since the 1991 Kyoto Protocol
was agreed; (3) Irresponsible political management of the climate change issue and delayed action has substantially increased the

risks to humanity of catastrophic climate change impacts occurring; (4) Temperature changes associated with the Earth's energy
imbalance have been absorbed by the oceans and ice melt but will start to increase more rapidly as the oceans warm. There is a

material risk that climate change impacts will massively impact agricultural output leading to famine. Crop-growing and grazing land is
a delicate and very thin layer [only 50 cm thick] of the the ecosystem that is extremely vulnerable to minor climate change damage (
eg flooding, erosion, temperature change and drought ); (5) There is a real risk of sea level rises being dramatically larger or more

rapid (or both) than the "1-2 metres in the next 100 years" planning guidelines communicated by the NZ Government which are
intellectually dishonest in that they fail to state the true scale of sea level rises that could occur; (6) There is credible geological

evidence showing historical sea level rises of around 10 metres being associated with only a 1.0 degree C rise in atmospheric
temperatures. The Paris Accord only aims to limit temperature increase to 2.0 degrees C (maybe 1.5 degrees C). The associated

scale of sea level rise will result in massive destruction of valuable human-built infrastructure and significant inundation of low altitude
agricultural land. It is very likely that the Paris Accord targets are too soft. (7) The maximum potential for sea level rises of around 70
metres from ice melt would be enormously destructive to human society and economies as would sea level rises of only 10-20

metres; (8) Modern advanced societies depend on stability and the long term use of assets. New Zealand will never rationally be able
afford to rebuild Whangarei, Auckland, Tauranga, Hamilton, Palmerston North, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin, and Invercargill as a

result of sea level rise and inundation. Prevention will be cheaper than dealing with the consequences of climate change; (9) There is
credible scientific evidence for the existence of feedback processes that could swamp any ability for humanity to 'control' climate

change by emissions reductions and this should drive far greater urgency in our actions than has been evidence to date; AND
THEREFORE WE MUST ensure that New Zealand's climate change response truly reflects the real gravity of the climate change
problem. While we are a small country, leadership is a critical element of driving global progress. We must lead given the lack of global

progress. Finally, I strongly recommend that we consider the benefits of 'central bank funding mechanisms' that will enable rapid
progress to be made on critical projects ( eg wind farms, geothermal power stations, railway electrification, energy system upgrades,

public transport upgrades, research and development initiatives etc ) whilst allowing for the costs to be amortised across multiple
generations. The use of 'quantitative easing' has precedents globally to rescue the banking system. Saving the planet from human-

induced climate change is a far more worthy goal and will result in the sort of stability that financial markets, businesses and ordinary
people undeniably prefer.
