Refrigerants - New Zealand’s Climate Denial. Small amounts but significant due to potency. Example of legislation nobody paying

attention to. If we are to reduce greenhouse gases why in NZ so poor on refrigerants? The irony of people wringing their hands over
emissions yet nobody seems concerned over the fridge unless it fails to keep the chardy cool. When it fails the fridge is dumped,

gases released. Yes, yes there is a law that says such gases are not to be released into the atmosphere but like so many
environmental laws in NZ, few pay attention. (Even councils regularly flout the Reserves Act.) For if there is no enforcement it is as

good as no law at all. So let’s forget about announcing the edicts that cause no change and actually figure out a way to stop
refrigerants being released from discarded fridges, air conditioning units, dehumidifiers, heat pumps etc At present companies that
run transfer stations allow the dumping of fridges into scrap metal piles. They ask that they are dumped on condition that they have

been ‘de-gassed’. For a start that is not always checked and if it is, and found intact, the dumper is asked to de-gas. The most
common response is the dumper to simply cut the refrigerant line. The company running the transfer station then can claim it is the

responsibility of the dumper and wash their hands but it results in the same thing. It is free to dump a fridge as the metal is recycled.
The dump operator gets free metal out of the deal. Fridges make up a very large proportion of that scrap metal pile. Perhaps the

answer is to require transfer station operators to have a role in recycling the gases and for the polluter to pay. To dump a fridge with
gas will cost something to recover that gas but it should cost significantly more to dump a fridge with the refrigerant line cut. Yes,
there are refrigeration companies that de-gas fridges but it has been known that people pay for such a service only to discover the

company has simply snipped the line out of convenience. All fridges etc end up at the dump so why not concentrate recovery there?
How to get transfer station operators, that to me seem very disinterested in recycling, to carry out recovery? The pit seems cheaper

and more convenient for so much waste. I fear it might have to be a case of forcing operators to have a system in place that can
easily be monitored and audited if they want fridge metal. Will this result in them not accepting items at all and promote fly tipping?
Least then it will be an issue that is open as opposed to what exists in NZ now which is a total denial. I brought a dehumidifier the

other day but nowhere on the machine or in the manual did it list the refrigerant. So obviously the manufacturer doesn’t even think
the gas will be recycled. The store selling me the dehumidifier had no idea. An end of life recovery bounty system financed at the

point of sale would have worked here. But we really don’t care. We say we do, but it’s like buying a plastic dolphin to show how much
you care about the sea. There is a connection in people’s head but not in reality. Fridge dumping really does seem an issue we have

seriously overlooked in the plethora of Climate Change mission statements. I look forward to the day NZ gets real on hazardous
materials (well behind the OECD on that) and actually monitors what we are doing as a country. Choosing to take a bag to the
supermarket is not going to do it. Please consider gases used in rolling out more heat pumps etc. What is the end point?
